---
layout: post
title: "My System"
meta_description: My system inspired by how to fail at almost everything and still win big (Scott Adams)
meta_keywords: post, lifestyle
tags: [lifestyle, paleo]
category: [lifestyle]
---

Book by Scott Adams I read in January 2014 titled
["How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big"](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17859574-how-to-fail-at-almost-everything-and-still-win-big).

Goals are for losers. Systems are for winners.

To summerize the system approach:

- Create habits and reserve your will-power for learning new habits.
- Reduce daily decisions to routine.
- Avoid setting (high) goals, instead have a system that will keep you going
- Keeping up your personal energy, which is your primary metric
- Simplicity is key

Related to a recent blog post
["Screw motivation, what you need is discipline"](http://www.wisdomination.com/screw-motivation-what-you-need-is-discipline/)

Basically boils down to growing habits and not let yourself be driven by your emotional state.
So stop waiting until you feel good to start a particular task and get into the habit of allocating
time to just do stuff and get it done.

Have a family with kids (third one is due any moment), you have to get more organized and
disciplined to get things done, without sacrifrizing a lot of quality time with the kids (and boy do
they grow up fast).



#### Exercise (daily 30/60min):
- Running
- Sprinting
- Push-ups / Sit-ups / Plank / Triceps-dips / 7-minute workout cycles
- Walking
- Cycling

#### Sports:
- football
- kickboxing / Taekwondo / Muay thai

#### Sleep:
- Go to bed before 00:00 (Yes, this one is hard if you do remote work for US companies from Europe)
- sleep 8 hours

#### Flexible schedule:
- Freelance on average 3 days a week
- Plan holidays/time-off
- Be in charge of your schedule. OK to make fixed planning schedule for things you want to do.
- Plan fixed slots for daily exercise
- Plan stuff that makes you want to get out of bed for it

#### Diet:
- No bread/rice/potatoes
- No Candy/Cookies/Chips
- No Soda
- No Coffee ()
- Occasionally olcohol (celebrations)
- Meal skipping is OK, fasting once in a while is good
- Snacks: nuts and fruit
- More vegetables by improving seasoning

#### Steadily improving / Skills:
- Programming (Python, Clojure, Julia, Euler, Math)
- Book reading / knowledge gathering
- Blogging (on side-projects / programming)
- Piano
- Coursera courses

#### Imagine an incredible future
- (related: stay optimistic and opportunistic)

#### Help others:
- Be there for my kids and wife
- Offer free advice and guidance for start-ups
- Engage at meet-ups and help people out

#### Show gratitude:
- Value what you already have
- Enjoy the moment

#### Have a healthy dose of Stoicism:
- Avoid the persuit of materialistic goals, and don't get attached to stuff
